= CCLS Buffler

UC Berkeley, School of Public Health, California Childhood Leukemia Study

== ToDo

* Remove the translatability that we'll never use

== Requirements

* ruby >= 1.8.7 - primarily due to the liberal use of #inject
* rubygems
* ImageMagick (which may require {MacPorts}[http://www.macports.org/])
  * ImageMagick is used to image manipulation
* curl - for the installation of rvm


== Required Gem Sources

 gem sources -a http://rubygems.org
 gem sources -a http://gems.github.com

== Required Gems

* {RedCloth}[http://redcloth.org] - textile parser.
* {chronic}[http://chronic.rubyforge.org] - natural language Date/Time parser.
* {acts_as_list}[http://github.com/ryanb/acts-as-list] - for maintaining order in all things listable
* {rcov}[http://github.com/relevance/rcov] - testing
* {mocha}[http://github.com/floehopper/mocha] - testing
* {autotest-rails}[http://rubyforge.org/projects/zentest] - testing
* {ZenTest}[http://www.zenspider.com/ZSS/Products/ZenTest/] - testing
* {thoughtbot-factory_girl}[http://github.com/thoughtbot/factory_girl] - testing
* {will_paginate}[http://github.com/mislav/will_paginate] - for object pagination
* {rubycas-client}[http://code.google.com/p/rubycas-client/] - user authentication
* {ucb_ldap}[http://ucbrb.rubyforge.org/ucb_ldap/] - user info
* {ssl_requirement}[http://github.com/rails/ssl_requirement] - for managing https pages
* {jakewendt-ruby_extension}[http://github.com/jakewendt/ruby_extension] - modifications, updates and patches for ruby.
* {ccls-ccls_engine}[http://github.com/ccls/ucb_ccls_engine] - contains all of the user authentication and other code used in several apps
* {jakewendt-simply_helpful}[http://github.com/jakewendt/simply_helpful]
* {jakewendt-rails_extension}[http://github.com/jakewendt/rails_extension]
* {jrails}[http://github.com/aaronchi/jrails] - jquery helper methods
* {Paperclip}[http://github.com/thoughtbot/paperclip] - for managing attachments and images


== Installation 

 #	Copy session file.
 cp config/initializers/session_store.rb.example config/initializers/session_store.rb

 #	Copy and setup database file.
 cp config/database.yml.example config/database.yml

 #	Copy and add your own gmail credentials.
 cp config/initializers/mail.rb.example config/initializers/mail.rb




rvm / jruby installation ( {Installing RVM}[http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/rvm/install/] ) ...

 curl http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/releases/rvm-install-head | bash
 #	or
 sudo gem install rvm
 /usr/lib/ruby/user-gems/1.8/gems/rvm-0.1.27/bin/rvm-install

 # add ... 
 #	if [[ -s ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm ]] ; then source ~/.rvm/scripts/rvm ; fi
 # to your .bashrc
 vi .bashrc
 bash
 rvm install jruby
 rvm use jruby
 # or perhaps ...
 rvm --default jruby






For standard ruby users, install mysql gem ...

 #	If using mysql ...
 # On Mac OS X:
 #   sudo gem install mysql -- --with-mysql-dir=/usr/local/mysql
 # On Mac OS X Leopard:
 #   sudo env ARCHFLAGS="-arch i386" gem install mysql -- --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config
 # ... I had to install the mysql gem like so ...

 sudo env ARCHFLAGS="-arch x86_64" gem install mysql -- --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config




Everybody join hands together now to install some gems ...

 #
 # Some gems require manual installation for one reason or another.
 #
 # (sudo may or may not be required or desired.
 #  Usage of sudo will/may cause gem installation in /usr/lib
 #  which may then require using sudo when running rake tasks
 #  or other things.  `gem list` and `sudo gem list` will differ.
 #  I recommend avoiding using sudo with rvm, but its your
 #  kitchen.)
 #
 gem source -a http://rubygems.org
 gem source -a http://gemcutter.org
 gem source -a http://gems.github.com
 sudo gem install hpricot
 sudo gem install rake
 sudo gem install rdoc -v '~> 2'
 sudo gem install rails -v '~> 2'
 #
 # can't rememeber what haml was for (HomeX and Surveyor)
 # others will load correctly now
 # sudo gem install haml 
 # sudo gem install paperclip rubycas-client ssl_requirement
 #
 # The rest should actually install with ...
 #
 sudo rake gems:install
 #
 # This eventually crashed with ...
 #
 #	Error: Your application used more memory than the safety cap of 500m.
 #	Specify -J-Xmx####m to increase it (#### = cap size in MB).
 #	Specify -w for full OutOfMemoryError stack trace
 #
 # ... but a rerun continued and completed.
 #
 sudo rake gems:install
 #
 # Some gems are defined in the environments/test.rb file
 #
 sudo rake gems:install RAILS_ENV=test



 
then we continue ...

 #	Add your own session secret to config/initializers/session_store.rb
 #	generate a 128 character hex string perfect for using as your secret.
 rake secret

 rake db:migrate

 #	add some expected items (loads fixtures OVERWRITING some db data)
 rake app:setup

 script/server

 #	login to your app
 #	The first administrator/deputy must be created via the command line.
 #	Others can be created via the command line or web app.
 #
 rake app:deputize uid=<Your CalNet UID>



== Production Installation

As this app is being installed on a VM Java jruby tomcat thing, we need special instructions.  Apparently, for Tomcat 5, we need to use jruby-rack-0.9.6.jar, which is included in lib/.

Tomcat will unarchive the war file and DESTROY the existing unarchived version!  Any file uploads will need to be kept elsewhere.

 ( warble from a jruby environment to get the jruby specific gems )

 [jakewendt@dev : buffler ]>
 bash
 rvm use jruby
 warble
 scp ROOT.war ccls.berkeley.edu:

 [jakewendt@ccls-01]>
 sudo /sbin/service tomcat5 stop
 sudo su -l tomcat
 /bin/rm -rf /var/lib/tomcat5/webapps/buffler
 cp ~jakewendt/ROOT.war /var/lib/tomcat5/webapps/
 exit

 sudo /sbin/service tomcat5 start
 tail -f /var/log/tomcat5/catalina.out

{Kenai}[http://kenai.com/projects/warbler/pages/Home]

{Berkeley Wiki}[https://wikihub.berkeley.edu/display/istas/Getting+Started+with+JRuby]


== Documentation

Inline documentation is sparse and incomplete, but I'm working on it.

 sudo gem install rdoc --source http://gemcutter.org
 rake doc:plugins
 rake doc:app
 open doc/app/README_rdoc.html


== Further Info

{Ruby Best Practices}[http://github.com/sandal/rbp-book/tree/gh-pages/pdfs/]

{RVM on GitHub}[http://github.com/wayneeseguin/rvm]


== To Do

* Fix <tt>expire_fragment "#{request.try(:host_with_port)}#{page_path}"</tt> so that it works without the <tt>try</tt> (not necessary)
* Add to <tt>doc/README_FOR_APP</tt>
* one of the images in rdoc isn't always the correct directory depth and will create a flash error showing this

=== Vaguely related to dos

* Make RDoc auto recognize the following rails commands and group them together under separate headings (like Public Instance Methods, Private Instance Methods, etc.)
  * named_scope
  * validate_*
  * before_*
  * after_*
  * attr_protected
  * attr_accessible
* Make RDoc auto recognize these specific commands and group them together under user definable separate headings (like Public Instance Methods, Private Instance Methods, etc.)
*	so far, rdoc_rails does everything except the Owner relationship of the Aliquot (counter_cache is causing the problem)
* rdoc the rake tasks??
* thickbox-compressed.js has relative location for image which isn't always correct.



== Credit / Special Thanks

Gradient images made with {Gradient Image Maker}[http://tools.dynamicdrive.com/gradient/]

{Demo on css rounded corners}[http://css-radius.heroku.com]

{Background image gradients}[http://gradients.glrzad.com/]

